# FIT 50

#### Video Demo:  <https://youtu.be/LgwxvWA-zJI>

#### Description: The project, titled “FIT 50”, is a one stop solution for all your fitness tracking needs. It uses Python’s Flask, SQLITE, HTML, CSS, JavaScript along with Jinja. It is a dynamic web-based applications where the designs, Frontend, static bits are written using HTML CSS JavaScript, the logics, backend and dynamic bits are written using Python, its Flask library and Jinja and all the data stored in a database using SQLITE.

#### Since the website is used for fitness needs it tries to use a modern and sporty theme which is signified by different tabs of the website being different color themed. The logo of the website is based off of the coloring scheme of google and the suffix “50” comes from the name of the course “CS50”. The background of the website is white with black texts for most cases but the website also comes with a dark mode feature which does not fully work as intended but still makes sure the background and text colors are reversed i.e. the background is black and the texts are white. The toggle for dark mode is at the bottom right corner of the page.

#### Upon entering the website, the user is greeted with the login page, which is the file “login.html”, where the user will Log In to enter the site and use all of its functionalities. If the user is a first-time visitor of the website, they will also be able to register for an account by clicking on the register tab on the top right corner or clicking on the “Don’t have an account? Register here.” directly below the “Log In” button. The register tab will ask the user for their username and password and also ask the user to re-enter their password to confirm it. After clicking the “Register” button, if the username is already not in use, the user will be registered in the database under the “users” table, prompted with a flash message for successful registration and redirected to the homepage of the website.

#### The home page, which is the file “index.html”, contains the “Health Dashboard” which is the summary of all the data inputted by the user like their BMI (Body-Mass Index) Over Time, the hours of sleep they get per day, their exercise history, their food and macro intake history. The page uses charts to represent their hours of sleep and their BMI trend over time and tables to represent their exercise and food related history. The color scheme of the page is a mixture of red green blue and yellow representing the colors of each tab. Atop the “Health Dashboard” the user will see a navigation bar which helps to navigate through the different sections of the website, manage their profile and also log out of the website.

#### The BMI Calculator tab, which is the file “bmi.html”, asks the user for their height and mass in metric units and their age then calculates their BMI, after the user clicks on the calculate BMI button, it flashes the BMI of the user on the bottom of the page and shows their position on a chart which has different classifications for different body-mass index and stores it in the database file under “bmi_records” table. The coloring scheme of the page is bluish with the chart having different colors representing each class.

#### The Macro racker tab, which is the file “macro.html”, asks the user details about their meals like the name of the dish, the amount of calorie and macronutrients and the time of intake and after the user clicks the “Log Macros” button, stores it in the database file under the “macro_records” table. Then the history of the meals eaten by the user is shown beside the form. The page has a reddish theme to attract the attention of the user to the table.

#### The Exercise Tracker tab, which is the file “exercise.html”, asks the user details about their exercises and logs it in after the user clicks “Log Exercise” Button and stores it in the database file under the “exercise_records” table. If the user is logging in a weightlifting session, they can log each of their exercises separately to give a more in-depth view of their exercise session. The tab asks for the name of the exercise, the targeted body part, the reps and sets and the time taken to complete the exercise. If the user is logging in a cardio session, they can put the body part targeted to cardio, set the reps and sets to 1 and input the duration of the cardio session. All of the users exercise history is shown beside the form. The page has a yellowish and orangish theme to it to keep the user motivated for exercising and logging it in.

#### The Sleep Tracker tab, which is the file “sleep.html”, asks the user about their quality of sleep, how many hours of sleep the user got and time and date and stores it in the database file under the “sleep records” table. The history of the user’s sleep is shown beside the form in a table. The page has a greenish theme to represent the peacefulness in good sleep.

#### The Profile tab, which is the file “profile.html”, is where the users can see their latest BMI, their average daily calorie intake and their average weekly sleep hours. The user also has the freedom to change their username if they feel like and also change their password at any moment they want.
